---
categories:
- posts
date: 2016-05-08T00:00:00Z
summary: back @ this year's CHI 2016. We just have 3 Late Breaking Work submissions
  accepted ...
title: Kai at CHI 2016
url: /2016/05/08/kai-at-chi-2016/
---

back @ this year's CHI 2016. We just have 3 Late Breaking Work submissions accepted and it seems they are currently for free download at the ACM website
<!--more-->
(so grab them while they are still hot ... I mean free):

[Empathy Glasses](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892370)
Katsutoshi Masai, Kai Kunze, Maki sugimoto, and Mark Billinghurst. 2016. [DOI 2851581.2892370
](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892370)

[Embodied Reading: A Multisensory Experience.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892353). Susana Sanchez, Tilman Dingler, Heng Gu, and Kai Kunze. 2016. [DOI 2851581.2892353](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892353)

[In the Eye of the Beholder: The Impact of Frame Rate on Human Eye Blink.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892449)
Benjamin Tag, Junichi Shimizu, Chi Zhang, Kai Kunze, Naohisa Ohta, and Kazunori Sugiura. 2016.
[DOI 2851581.2892449](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892449)

Below are the abstracts for more details.

# Empathy Glasses

In this paper, we describe Empathy Glasses, a head worn prototype designed to create an empathic connection between remote collaborators. The main novelty of our system is that it is the first to combine the following technologies together: (1) wearable facial expression capture hardware, (2) eye tracking, (3) a head worn camera, and (4) a see-through head mounted display, with a focus on remote collaboration. Using the system, a local user can send their information and a view of their environment to a remote helper who can send back visual cues on the local user's see-through display to help them perform a real world task. A pilot user study was conducted to explore how effective the Empathy Glasses were at supporting remote collaboration. We describe the implications that can be drawn from this user study.

# Embodied Reading

Reading fiction is a silent activity, where readers come to know imaginary worlds and characters from the book’s pages. However, we perceive the natural world with more than our eyes, and literature should be no different. Thus, an embodied reading experience is proposed, adding sound effects and haptic feedback to allow readers to listen and feel the narrative text. This paper presents a preliminary prototype for multisensory narratives and an experimental methodology to measure embodiment in literature. Results for the subjective assessment of immersion and user experience from 15 participants in three modalities: haptic, sound, both combined are discussed.


# In the Eye of the Beholder
We introduce a study investigating the impact of high frame rate videos on viewer's eye blink frequency. A series of videos with varying combinations of motion complexities and frame rates were shown to participants, while their eye blinks were counted with J!NS MEME (smart eye wear). Lower frame rates and lower motion complexity caused higher blink frequencies, which are markers for stress and emotional arousal.
